How would you students answer this question:
Do you feel closer to Jehovah now
than you did
before your Gilead training began?
The answer is a resounding yes, isn’t it?
Maybe you can relate to these comments
of graduates of past classes of Gilead.
One brother said: “Absolutely, yes!
“I believe I now experience more fully
“what it means to walk with God
“and know and rely upon him
as a close Friend,
not merely someone
I turn and look up to in prayer.”
A sister said:
“Gilead definitely drew me closer to Jehovah.
“The way we studied the Scriptures
with intensity
truly made me feel like the Bible
was a letter Jehovah wrote to me.”
Another brother said:
“Jehovah communicated with such clarity,
“which made it real and personal.
“It made me feel closer to Jehovah
than ever before,
and that feeling will never be forgotten.”
Well, unquestionably,
your deep study of God’s Word during Gilead
drew you closer to Jehovah.
But here’s the question,
How close can you be?
How close
can your relationship with Jehovah get?
You saw it leap forward in five months
of deep Bible study, but is there a limit?
Is there more?
Will you ever get done?
Consider two points
that answer that question.
The first one is found
in the book of James chapter 4,
and let’s read together
the first part of verse 8.
And let’s read it with that question in mind:
Is there any limit to how close
our relationship with Jehovah could be?
James 4:8 says:
“Draw close to God,
and he will draw close to you.”
So is there any limit indicated here?
Well, it is true that in English
this phrase to “draw close to” someone
could be applied in a physical sense
—actually standing next to someone.
And in that case, there is a limit.
You can only stand so close to someone.
But that’s not really the sense of James 4:8,
is it?
Rather, it’s in this sense:
When we talk about our close friends,
we’re not talking about those
that are nearest in proximity.
We’re talking
about the depth of our relationship,
the closeness of our friendship.
And so then to “draw close to God” then means
to strengthen our relationship,
strengthen our friendship, with him.
And then looking at the verse,
does it appear that there’s any limit
to how close that relationship can get?
The implication is that as long
as we keep drawing close to Jehovah,
then he’ll keep drawing close to us.
And that takes us to our second point,
and that is the real life example
of God’s Son,
because Jesus drew close to Jehovah.
Clearly, he was taught by Jehovah.
Remember Isaiah 50:4,
regarding Jesus’ prehuman existence,
where he said:
“He awakens me morning by morning;
he awakens my ear
to listen like the taught ones.”
Does that sound a bit
like your Gilead training?
‘Morning by morning
Jehovah was awakening your ear.’
Yet, Jesus wasn’t instructed by Jehovah
for five months;
he was instructed for billions of years.
And during all that time,
his relationship with his Father
continued to grow and deepen.
So, then, we put it all together.
You saw your relationship with Jehovah
grow significantly
in five months of deep Bible study.
James 4:8 encourages us
to just keep drawing close to Jehovah.
And Jesus did so for billions of years,
and look at how close
his relationship with Jehovah is.
So, then, what’s the answer?
How close can you be to Jehovah?
The potential for your relationship
with Jehovah to deepen
is endless.
Well, that’s just wonderful to contemplate,
isn’t it?
But let’s make some application
because this really becomes
a very important overall lesson
that you take with you
from your Gilead experience:
That is how your deep Bible study
affected your relationship with Jehovah.
And one of the reasons
why this is such an important lesson
is because your success in your assignment
is directly connected to the depth
of your relationship with Jehovah.
Your success in your assignment
is directly connected to the depth
of your relationship with Jehovah.
Now, why can we say that?
It’s because of what takes place
when we draw close to Jehovah
through a study of his Word.
Turn with me, please,
to the book of Psalms,
and we’ll read the 25th Psalm
in verse 4
—Psalm 25:4.
It says:
“Make me know your ways, O Jehovah;
teach me your paths.”
This is what’s happening
when we study God’s Word, isn’t it?
We are coming to know Jehovah God’s ways.
The Watchtower  once said it this way.
It said: “As we get a deeper
and deeper understanding of God’s Word,
we become imbued
with God’s way of thinking.”
“We become imbued
The dictionary said that the word
“imbue implies the introduction of a quality
that fills and permeates the whole being,”
so like dyeing a garment or leavening bread.
But here we’re talking
about being imbued with God’s thinking,
that maybe God’s thinking
would fill and permeate our whole being.
Is that possible?
Think back to the example of Jesus.
As we discussed,
Jesus drew close to Jehovah.
He was taught by Jehovah
for billions of years.
And what was happening
during that whole time?
He was being imbued
with Jehovah God’s thinking.
And it so permeated him
that when he was on earth,
he could say at John 14:9:
“Whoever has seen me
has seen the Father also.”
So in other words,
everything that Jesus said,
everything that he did while on earth
in every situation,
well, we could imagine Jehovah
doing and saying those very things.
And that is why
the success of your assignment
is directly connected to the depth
of your relationship with Jehovah.
The more you draw close to Jehovah
through a study of his Word,
then the more you are imbued
with his thinking
and the more then you will do, or act,
and say things as Jehovah would.
And so how does this play out?
Well, in your assignment,
if you have the privilege
to contribute to significant decisions
that will affect others in your department
or at the branch or in the field even,
my, you want to be guided
by Jehovah’s thinking, don’t you?
You want to do things as he would do them.
Well, the closer you are to Jehovah,
the deeper that relationship is,
the more your decisions will mirror his.
But, of course, we know
strengthening and stabilizing others
isn’t always done
in big, grand gestures like that
—big decisions,
new organizational arrangements.
Quite often it’s the day-to-day interactions
with others
that really encourage them.
And isn’t it true that we learn so much
from those intimate conversations
that Jesus had with others,
or seemingly incidental interactions
that he had with others,
that the Bible records?
Well, you will strengthen others
in similar ways.
For example,
when you are guided
by Jehovah’s thinking in personal matters,
such as in your choice of dress and grooming,
well, others will certainly notice that
and that will strengthen their resolve
to make good decisions
in these personal areas.
When you are guided by Jehovah’s thinking
in the use of your time,
as busy as you will be
—when the friends see you in the ministry,
at the meetings,
working hard in your assignment—
they will take notice of that
and that will strengthen their resolve
to make good priorities in their life.
Every time you steer
a negative conversation to the positive,
every time you show
a willingness to do humble tasks,
every time you take the time
to get the other side of the story
before rendering judgment
—yes, in all these areas of your daily life,
you give evidence
that you have drawn close to Jehovah,
you have been imbued with his thinking,
and you are acting as Jehovah would.
And in that case,
you absolutely will strengthen and stabilize
your brothers!
Well, we love you
for your relationship with Jehovah.
And we encourage you
to take this lesson of Gilead with you
—the effect that your deep Bible study
had on your relationship with Jehovah—
and keep drawing close to him.
The potential is endless,
and this is what will ensure your success.
Well, may the rich blessing of Jehovah,
your Friend, be with you
as you use your Gilead training
in the assignments he has given you.